
## Repositories WG Minutes 2022-05-02

Minutes by Joseph Rickert 

### Attendees
* Gabriel Becker
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Jeroen Ooms - RopenSci
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph B Rickert - RStudio
* Maëlle Salmon

JBR began the meeting by noting the Miles McBain, a regular member of the WG, has begun a public protest that is documented in the twitter thread: https://twitter.com/MilesMcBain/status/1520002243290107905
Synopsis: Miles intends to withhold a new version of his package `datapasta` from CRAN "until there is engagement [from CRAN] in the reform process". This creates a dilemma for Miles since not putting the bug fixes on CRAN will create difficulties for `datapasta` users. There was a brief discussion to clarify the issues.

Next, JBR noted that in their next phase of development the [R Validation Hub](www.pharmar.org) may be interested in standing up a repository of packages that have been validated using the risk framework developed by the group and the tools provided in the `riskmetric` package. JBR then suggested should the R Validation Hub pursue this idea it would provide an opportunity for the Repository WG to assist in the process by developing procedures for managing the repo and setting expectations for transparency and engagement with the community. At the very least, participation would allow the Repositories WG to refine their questions or CRAN.

There was some discussion on what form an R Validation Hub repo might take, ranging from a collection of containers each with a snapshot of packages fixed to particular point in time, to a repository of two hundred or so packages along with their dependencies that are periodically re-validated using the `riskmetric` methodology as the packages change due to bug fixes and additional features. GB gave a code coverage as an example of a risk metric that could reasonably be expected to change over time.

JO noted that the R OpenSci [R-Universe](https://ropensci.org/r-universe/) project has already developed most of the infrastructure including automated testing to support an R Validation Hub repository and gave a brief demo of the project, including the [search dashboard](https://r-universe.dev/search/) which allows users to search for packages not on CRAN. He stated that the R-Universe team is looking for ways to improve the search capabilities and suggested that risk metrics might be helpful.

The next step would be to learn more about what the R Validation Hub may need. JO offered to present to the R Validation Hub WG if they were interested.

**Action:** JBR will contact the RVH and determine their interest.

Next, the discussion turned to what the WG could do influence the Community to adopt behaviors that could lighten CRAN's workload. It was noted that CRAN has to do the same work for both high quality and low quality packages, and ML speculated it is likely that much of the burden on CRAN is caused by quality issues. ML also suggested that influencing the R Community is really a socialization issue and suggested that it might be worthwhile to organize a conference or series of workshops devoted to developing packages for CRAN. The group very much liked the idea of a conference and agreed that following up on Martin Maechler's suggestion of documenting reasons for package rejections from mailing lists and other public information would be an important contribution to a conference. Several other ideas were floated including having workshops where attendees could get one-on-one help.

**Action:** JBR will start a document in the WG repo outlining ideas for the conference.

MS pointed out that the WG should continue to refine the [list of questions](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/pull/11) begun by LR. All present agreed that this is important.

The next meeting of the WG is scheduled for Monday, June 6, 2022 at 8AM Pacific Time.
