## R Consortium Repositories WG  Minutes 2022-07-11

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

### Attendees:
* Gabriel Becker
* James Black
* Tyler Finethy
* Martin Mächler
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert
* Ben Ubah

The meeting was recorded and the [video](https://rstudio.zoom.us/rec/share/EuKeXNZqb4SIubFHHav_I45TL5S6npBkF1mBqY2dkRNKBTegdLm6XTRVe1ZzySY.R7u4M9EOJELzSir5) is available with the passcode:.7!PL0eK

Joseph Rickert began the meeting by explaining that he invited Ben Ubah to present an overview of the two proposals that Ben recently submitted to the ISC first call for proposals in 2022.

Ben Ubah proposals:

* [CRAN Checks Documentation Knowledgebase](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RqEWCV4-ULfjHKmIhivnEB-8Z0WLHv8ffJu1VHcw6ac/edit?usp=sharing)
* [CRAN Checks Documentation Dashboard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZWd2KYBzAaYkn-SHuonrrBJFw-C6Obrirji12-_hJw/edit?usp=sharing)

Joseph explained that the ISC declined to fund the proposals, not because they were without merit, but because the ISC believed that the proposals should first be vetted by this committee. 

Ben explained that the idea for the first proposal was sparked by comments from Heather Turner and Martin Mächler suggesting that there would be value in documenting the reasons packages are rejected by CRAN from information that is publicly available on the R-devel mailing list archives and other sources.  Ben envisioned the knowledge base as being organized around searchable Q&A information.

The second proposal is to build an automated tracking tool.

After Ben's proposal Gabriel Becker suggested that it would be more helpful to provide 

* Clear documentation about CRAN package checks
* The battery of platforms and operating systems that CRAN uses to run checks

Without knowledge of the above, packaged developers are often unable to reproduce the errors flagged by CRAN. 

Gabe suggested reshaping the proposal to focus on issues specific to CRAN, that are beyond issues having to do with individual packages.

Martin asked if constructing Ben's knowledge base would require relying on maintainers of rejected packages to fill out a form. He noted that it is likely that only users who had major problems would actually do this, and expressed skepticism that most people would fill out a form with sufficient detail to be useful. Ben replied that his intention is to capture information when there is no apparent way forward for the package maintainer. 

Martin pointed out that many package submitters have problems understanding basic reasons for package rejections and they often do get help on the mailing list.

Then followed a discussion about the automation that would be required to build the knowledge base envisioned by Ben. Lluis Revilla reminded the group that the [CRAN incoming dashboard](https://r-hub.github.io/cransays/articles/dashboard.html) has been automatically tracking package submissions for over a year. He said that he believes this could be extended to record the reasons why packages are failing. However, it was noted that it would not be possible (and maybe not ethical) to recover the emails sent to package developers.

During the course of the conversation, Martin noted that there are times when environment variables are not documented. This could happen when either an R Core member or a CRAN members introduces an undocumented variable, perhaps as part of a short-term experiment. Martin flagged this as Communication issue. 

The discussion moved to the possibility of asking CRAN to collaborate with a communicator/advocate who be privy to CRAN activities, monitor mailing lists, and serve as a liaison between CRAN and the R Community. Martin  expressed some optimism that if such a person were to be perceived as reducing CRAN's work it might be possible to staff the position.

Joseph suggested that we take up the topic of drafting a proposal to outline the position of the communicator/advocate position at the next meeting of this group.

Before the meeting ended, Joseph asked Lluis that if the R Consortium could do anything to help promote the existence of the dashboard he would be happy to bring this to the attention of the R Consortium Marketing Committee.


The next meeting of the working group will be at 8AM Pacific Time on Monday, August 1, 2022. The agenda for this meeting will be to continue the discussion about drafting a proposal for the communicator/advocate position.


