## Repositories WG Minutes 2022-02-01

Minutes by Joseph Rickert 

### Attendees

* Gabriel Becker
* Michael Lawrence - Roche 
* Jeroen Ooms  
* Lluis Revilla - IDIBAPS
* Joseph B Rickert - RStudio
* Paul Schuette - FDA

It was the consensus of those present that  major objectives of the working group are:

* to win the trust of CRAN 
* to achieve a working relationship with CRAN that involves regular participation of CRAN representatives in WG meetings.

As a first step: JBR agreed to contact Martin Maechler to set up a meeting time when he could attend a working group meeting.

JBR asked what preparations the WG should make for meeting with Martin. Those present thought it would be sufficient to prepare for the meeting by developing a series of questions along the lines of the following.

### Questions for CRAN

* What are the most critical issues that CRAN is facing?
* How could and outside group help?
* What is the future of CRAN?
* What is the purpose of CRAN checks?
* Would CRAN support additional repositories along the lines of Bioconductor? If so what kinds of policies would that involve?

The group agreed that the intense workload involved with maintaining CRAN is most likely a critical factor in limiting the time that CRAN members have to engage the Repositories WG, and with R package developers in general. JBR asked if the WG could help to reduce the load on CRAN by recommending best practices, for example suggesting that packages intended for CRAN should have more documentation than the minimal CRAN requirement of having a package pdf with representative examples. The group thought that it was unlikely that any attempt to provide guidelines on package quality would be successful.

This led to a discussion about how notions of package quality metrics and associated repository practices would likely vary widely between one group of R package developers and another. JO pointed out that rOpenSci's [R-universe](https://ropensci.org/r-universe/) framework supports over 400 repositories, each operating according to the individual policies of their owners.

JBR will try to arrange a meeting date with Martin Maechler and will inform the WG.
