## Repositories WG Minutes 2022-02-01

Minutes by Joseph Rickert and Luis Revilla

### Attendees

* Gabriel Becker
* James Black - Roche
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Roche 
* Lluis Revilla - IDIBAPS
* Joseph Rickert - RStudio
* MaÃ«lle Salmon -
* Paul Schuette - FDA
* Heather Turner - R Foundation

#### Not present:  
 
* Jeroen Ooms
* Hadley Wickham 

JR brought the meeting to order, remarked that the agenda should include a discussion about what the WG would like to accomplish this year and asked if anyone would like to summarize the discussion of the previous meeting.

GB summarized the December meeting noting that the main topics were:

1. The desired behaviors of two candidate repositories that would be complementary to CRAN: the candidates discussed were a repo for packages on GitHub but not on CRAN and a "pre CRAN" developers repo.
2. Making progress on our efforts to reach out to CRAN to gain the knowledge required to have R-Hub run the exact same checks on test systems that are configured exactly as the CRAN systems.

With regard to the second topic, all present agreed that being able to run the same checks as CRAN would provide a great benefit to the R Community, and that the WG should continue to support ML's effort to engage with CRAN. At the end of the meeting, ML agreed to invite Martin Maechler to the WG's next meeting and JR said that he will send Martin a calendar invitation.

Most of the rest of the meeting was a technical discussion that included the following topics:

* The difference between and archive and a repository and their respective characteristics and merits
* What action should trigger a new or revised package: a commit or a bump to a new version number? It was suggested that developers favor tying packages to commits because of the benefit of continuous testing and integration while users prefer version numbers as an indication of stability. (Note by commit we mean commit + push in GitHub or the equivalent in a different version control system.). It was noted that both CRAN uses version bumps and so does Bioconductor even though even though Bioconductor is much tightly coupled between releases. 
* How companies actually use repositories. JB noted that Roche, working in a regulated industry, uses an internal repository based on RSPM. He described an FDA submission where the FDA requested that the packages involved come from CRAN, but frequent revisions of a Roche developed package created some friction with CRAN. Eventually, the FDA accepted GitHub as "the sourcd of truth". JB also mentioned that he expects that Roche will use r-universe for quick modifications as that provides more control. WM noted that Lilly works off biannual snapshots taken from CRAN. 
* What features or considerations would be important to smaller biotech/companies in regulated environments?

Three features emerged as being desired for any repository:  

1. As much automation as possible and limited human interactions
2. The ability to do reverse dependency checking 
3. A link to source code

JR asked how many packages were/are on version control? ML noted that this would be easy to answer for Bioconductor. It was noted that some CRAN package point back to version control either directly through an author supplied URL (optional) or through the BUG reports field. 

There was some discussion about how and why packages are archived on CRAN. GB speculated that when an event on CRAN triggers an error on an email check that it is likely that packages are silently orphaned.

LR showed [an analysis](https://llrs.dev/post/2021/12/07/reasons-cran-archivals/) of the reasons why packages are archived, and explained that after receiving negative feedback package authors are not inclined to submit packages to CRAN again.

WL explained an issue with the Build field that shows the user id. LR commented this could be used too to track which packages are last built by CRAN.

JR asked for recommendations and next steps for the WG. Suggestions included:

* Making decisions about commit vs version bump (see above) and whether to archived versions of packages.
* Making recommendations about best practices for using CRAN
* Survey rOpenSci and Bioconductor for the technology used to build and set up their repositories.
James mentioned also that the reproducibility behavior was important.

JR noted that if Martin Maechler does attend the next meeting it would be especially helpful to have an agenda and asked members to provide suggestions. (This could be done through email joseph.rickert@rstudio.com or by opening an issue on the WG repository.)

The next meeting is set for 10AM Pacific Time on Tuesday March 1, 2022.

## Addendum

Along with his notes for the minutes LR included the following suggestions for next month's meeting agenda:

* A discussion on how to make the interaction between CRAN and maintainers easier. 
* A discussion on providing tools and solutions to current problems that the CRAN team has that might make things easier for them.
* A complementary discussion on best practices for R package developers submitting to CRAN.  
* A discussion on the possibility of setting up a CRAN mentoring program that is similar to the current Bioconductor program.
