### Minutes: R Repositories WG
August 7, 2023

Minutes compiled by Joseph B Rickert

### Attendees

* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert

### MRAN

* The group noted that Microsoft provided adequate notice before shutting down MRAN, but there has not been much public discussion by the R Consortium about how to obtain MRAN-like services. 
* Most of MRAN's functionality has been included in Posit's [Public Package Manager](https://packagemanager.posit.co/client/#/)
* For information on how to get started with Package Manager see the Posit blog post: [Migrating from MRAN to Posit Public Manager](https://posit.co/blog/migrating-from-mran-to-posit-package-manager/).
* Currently, package Manager snapshots go back to 2017 (MRAN had snapshots from 2014).

### Repositiries

* The group affirmed the importance of continuing efforts to collaborate with CRAN and noted that the upcoming [R Project Sprint 2023](https://contributor.r-project.org/r-project-sprint-2023/) should provide opportunities make progress.
* There was considerable discussion about the role of the WG in assisting with work being done in the R Validation Hub working group and other working groups considering dedicated repositories, parallel to CRAN,  that would contain "validated packages" for special purposes e.g. FDA submissions.
* Tyler suggested developing an RFC template that would provide criteria for developing a list of "validated" packages. This would specify where trusted packages may be obtained.
* Will noted that validating Bayesian packages that support clinical trials often requires delving into deep statistical issues and is computationally expensive for anything based on MCMC inference.
* see the paper [Bayesian Workflow](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.01808.pdf) by Gelman et al. to get an idea of the issues involved.

**Actions:** 

* Tyler will write up a paragraph elaborating on his idea to form the basis of a discussion for the next meeting.
* JBR will check in withe the [ASA BIOP SWE WG](https://rconsortium.github.io/asa-biop-swe-wg/) to see if there is an opportunity for collaboration.

### WG Membership

* Lluís noted that there should be some clarity as to how people can join the working group.
* JBR suggested that people could write directly to him at director@r-consortium.org. He will also look into establishing a mailing list and publishing instructions for joining the WG on the GitHub repo.






