Repositories WG Meeting 2023-02-06

Minutes by Joseph Rickert

**Attendees**

* Gabriel Becker
* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Michael Lawrence
* martin Mächler
* Jeroen Ooms
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert
* Luke Schantz
* Paul Schuette
* Hadley Wickham

### CRAN Discussion 

The notes that Hadley took at the 2023-01-16 meeting are now in the Minutes directory of the repo.

The work agreed on at that meeting is in progress. Gabor recently provided the following summary of his work:

#### Gabor Note about Progress
I put together a system to manage R builds and containers:
https://github.com/r-hub/containers/
https://r-hub.github.io/containers/

See the second link on how to run this on your machine and on GitHub
Actions. They will be used on R-hub as well, eventually, and we could
think about better integrating them with
https://github.com/r-lib/actions.

I will be working on adding containers for the rest of the extra checks.

Feedback is welcome, in email, or via the issues in that repository:
https://github.com/r-hub/containers/issues
You can also "watch" that repository or individual issues if you want
to receive updates.

### Other Notes Concerning CRAN Discussion

* Simon is working on GitHub actions for checking code on the Mac
* Because BDR is not participating in the CRAN discussions the extra checks remain outside of the scope of our effort.
* Tomas Kalibera did not participate in the most recent discussion. He has previously express some skepticism about the project, so we will be sure to invite him to the next meeting.
* Jeroen is committed to helping Kurt with Docker
* The WG supports financing a Vienna trip for Jeroen and Gabor to work with Kurt and Uwe if that will help with progress

**Action**

* JBR and Luke will work with CRAN members to schedule the next CRAN discussion meeting for sometime in March or April

### R Validation Hub

JBR briefed the group about the work the R Validation Hub working group is doing to stand up a repository for pharmaceutical companies to use for making submissions to the FDA. There was a robust discussion about the technical and organizational challenges of doing this. WG members noted that there are "sharp corners" to negotiate, but would like to know more about the project and are willing to help if they can.

**Action:**

* JBR will invite the R Validation Hub project leaders working on the repository to attend a Repositories WG meeting in the near future.


### Zoom Invitations

Several Working Groups members did not receive invitations to the new Zoom meeting invitation. This cause considerable consternation. JBR apologized and will work with Luke to rectify the situation.

**Action**

* Luke will send out a new set of Zoom invitations organized by the R Consortium
* JBR will delete the old set of invitations
* JBR will work with Luke to establish a mailing list for the working group.
* Luke will create a new Slack channel for the group


