Repositories WG Meeting 2023-04-03

Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

**Attendees**

* Gabriel Becker
* Stefan Döring
* Tyler Finethy
* Doug Kelkhoff
* Kevin Kunzmann
* Will Landau
* Michael Lawrence
* Lluís Revilla
* Joseph Rickert
* Coline Zeballos

JBR brought the meeting to order and welcomed Doug Kelkhoff and others from the Regulatory Repos WG who he had invited to talk about their work. He introduced Doug and noted that Doug has taken over leadership of the R Validation Hub succeeding Andy Nicholls who has stepped down after several years of leading the Validation Hub.

Before asking Doug to present, JBR informed the group that he has, so far, been unable to schedule a third meeting with members of CRAN because of difficulties getting agreement on the date and time. He will continue trying.

Coline Zeballos noted that the Regulatory Repos WG (RRWG) is organized as a subgroup under the R Validation Hub. 

Doug explained the high level relationship of the work being undertaken by the RRWG to the R Validation Hub as a whole briefly as follows: the Validation Hub provides guidelines while the RRWG will implement the ideas relating to making validated packages available.

The general issue being addressed by the RRWG is to "identify and prototype at least one technical framework that can support a transparent, open, dynamic, cross-industry approach of establishing and maintaining a 'repository' of R packages with accompanying evidence of their quality and the assessment criteria, that can be used to simplify necessary in-house validation processes as much as possible."

Doug explained that the group has taken a step from committing to implementing a "CRAN like" repository and is reassessing industry requirements as well as the needs of health authorities and regulatory agencies. Currently, the three approaches depicted on slide four of Doug's presentation are under consideration. These are:

* Developing do it yourself tools
* Curating a universe of "regulatory ready" packages for submissions
* Standing up a public repository

Note that: the slides from Doug's presentation are in the file **ReposWG_20230403_RValHubGuestPresentation** which is inn the Minutes directory.

All present agreed that the Repositories WG and the RRWG should coordinate their work and Doug said that he would try to fine an RRWG member to regularly attend our meetings.

The next meeting of the Repositories Working Group will be on Monday 1, 2023 at 8AM Pacific Time.
