### Minutes: R Repositories WG
September 5, 2023

Minutes compiled by Joseph B Rickert

### Attendees

* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Jeroen Ooms
* Joseph B Rickert
* Lluís Revilla
* Robert Villegas-Diaz

### Repository Standards

* JBR asked the group if anyone had additional thoughts about asking the R Community to comment about the idea of developing guidelines for standing up and managing R package repositories.
* The sentiment is that there is not an obvious critical need or much enthusiasm to undertake an effort like this at the present time.
* There was a question about whether the R-universe model would be an appropriate model for companies wishing to set up private repositories. 
* JO answered that a fundamental assumption underlying R-universe is that all packages be open source. A private repository would be out of scope for R-universe

### WebAsssembly

* JBR remarked that the submissions WG intends to make a R submission before the end of the year (Pilot 4) that would package the code and data for a clinical submission into a WebAssemply “package” that would run on the desktop of an FDA analyst.
* This idea is very attractive to the FDA because it would avoid the organization and security problems of standing up and managing servers.
* JO remarked that at the recent R Foundation Sprint event he worked with George Stagg, Posit’s lead [WebR](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2023/03/webr-0-1-0/) developer to implement WebAssembly on rOpenSci’s R-universe.
* R-universe now automatically includes WebAssembly builds
* However, JO noted that quite a few R packages, especially packages with networking capabilities, do not work with WebAssembly. Networking features must be disabled.

### CRAN

* At the recent R Foundation Sprint, JO spoke with CRAN member Uwe Ligges about R binaries
* LR also recently exchange email with Uwe regarding error messages from CRAN
* Uwe is in the process of making small changes to CRAN error messages that will hopefully alleviate confusion.
* JO mentioned that he still expects to receive an invitation from Kurt Hornik to visit Kurt and work on adapting Kurt's CRAN testing infrastructure to make use of containers.
* JBR asked JO to let him know when the invitation comes so he can arrange RC funding for the trip.
* The sentiment is that both Uwe, Kurt Hornik, and Simon Urbanek, the unofficial CRAN member who is responsible for MacOS builds, are very amenable to collaboration.



### R-Hub

* JBR noted that although R-Hub was the first project funded by the R Consortium, and indeed it was the original motivating project for founding the R Consortium, it is not being developed.
JO replied that Gábor has been focused on [rhub2](https://github.com/r-hub/rhub2) which builds all of the original R-Hub features with GitHub Actions. 
The value proposition is that it is no longer necessary to pay for the AWS infrastructure when developers can use GitHub actions to take advantage of the free GitHub infrastructure.
When questioned about the knowledge of GitHub required to set up rhub2, JO pointed out that running a single R command is all that is required.

#### Actions

* JBR will speak with Gábor about the possibility of retiring R-Hub
* JO will speak with Gábor about merging R-Hub technology with the R-universe


### ISC Call for Proposals

* JO mentioned that rOpenSci will be applying for an ISC grant
* JO also asked about the process for the ISC to consider the R-universe as a Top Level Project

### useR! 2024

* JBR noted next year’s useR! conference will be a pretty big deal and that the repositories working group should set the goal of proposing one or more talks about the group’s activities.

The next meeting of the Repositories WG will be at 8AM PST on Monday October 2, 2023
