Repositories WG Meeting 2023-06-05

Minutes by Joseph B Rickert

**Attendees**

* Tyler Finethy
* Will Landau
* Joseph Rickert
* Paul Schuette
* Hadley Wickham

Minutes

Joseph Rickert brought the meeting to order and noted that:

1. so far, Kurt Hornik has not responded to the invitation for the R Consortium to finance a visit by Jeroen Ooms to his facility and 
2. he had no update from Lluis Revilla. 

As it turned out Lluis did not have the correct zoom link and the meeting ended before this could be corrected.

In a subsequent email, Lluis provided a link to his recent blog post describing his work: https://llrs.dev/post/2023/05/03/cran-maintained-packages/

and pointed to the this GitHub issue: https://github.com/RConsortium/r-repositories-wg/issues/26

The July meeting for the this working group has been moved from July 3 to 8AM Pacific Time on July 10 in order to avoid the conflict with the US July 4 holiday weekend.






