### Minutes Repositories WG
April 1, 2024
Recorded by Joseph Rickert

#### Attendees

* Aaron Clark - 
* Tyler Finethy - Posit
* Wilmar Igl - Icon
* Doug Kelkhoff - Roche
* Will Landau - Lilly
* Michael Lawrence - Genentech
* Jeroen Ooms - rOpenSci
* Llu√≠s Revilla
* Joseph Rickert - ProCogia
* Paul Schuette - FDA
* Coline Zeballos - Roche

The meeting was recorded and the [Video](https://zoom.us/rec/share/nC5oqlv_6SmF0VrgNQraXotCL1J2ArnLdFhlAodhWh_jnNufQAuaQXqLECZ7cyI.RUbY686a4B6x1mA_?startTime=1711983731000) is available.

The meeting was a joint meeting of the R Repositories working group and the Repositories wokstream of the R Validation Hub working group. The purpose of the meeting was to initiate ongoing discussions about the requirements for developing "CRAN like" repositories.

Joseph Rickert began the meeting with a short presentation to motivate the discussion. His slides are in the Documents directory of the working group's GitHub repository. Joseph began by emphasizing that although the CRAN repository is a unique achievement that sets R apart from other statistical programming environments there is pressure in the community to explore building complementary repositories that meet specialized needs. Moreover, there is technology and infrastructure infrastructure in place now including GitHub, R-universe, the R Hub build system that was not available when CRAN was conceived. He urged the group to proceed cautiously and with respect for the people who are working to sustain CRAN and the R ecosystem.

## Requirements from the repositories workstream

Next, (At **10:00** into the video) Coline Zeballos and Doug Kelkhoff of the R Validation Hub begin a presentation on goals for the workstream and regulatory requirements. (The content of this presentation is available [here](https://github.com/pharmaR/regulatory-r-repo-wg/issues/76) on GitHub.)

The requirements presented were:

### Availability
Snapshotting, avoiding changing tarball url upon archiving. Somewhat solved by tools like renv, devtools::install_version, MRAN, PPM snapshots, etc. Ideally would have a more "official" mechanism that avoids requirement to use specific tooling or vendor services.

### Build Transparency
In a regulatory setting, if packages were to be used directly, we'd need to be able to assess any risk between how the package performs on a build system and how we would expect it to perform on a sponsor system or health authority system.

### Metadata
Probably the biggest requirement, we'd ideally have enough information to characterize the "risk" of a package. Notably, this might include test coverage, usage statistics, and other checks for best practices. Note that the regulatory space has different risk tolerance for different types of analysis, so there's no single cutoff that we might apply. For this reason, we've explored mechanisms of making this cutoff somewhat dynamic either as a dynamic server-generated PACKAGES index, or as a client-side available.packages filter.

### Security
From feedback we've received from health authorities (specifically from their IT security folks), vulnerability scanning is a key capability slowing their adoption of R. Examples of problematic packages would have been discovered via oysteR scan.

### Availability

* Minimize gap between private use of packages and health authority reviewer (FDA) use. Likely means that the bulk of packages would be served centrally and publicly.
* In addition, private enterprises will certainly need to supplement this cohort with additional private packages, and we'd like for the solution to be able to be privately-hosted to supplement a public cohort.
* Possibly need to be able to support non-CRAN public packages as well

### Demo

At **50:36** into the video, Doug demos a pilot demonstrating how a repo might deliver quality measures that is based on R-Hub.


### Subsequent Discussion 

Subsequent discussion included ideas from the [R-universe]() and the [R-multiverse](https://r-multiverse.org/).


### Next Meeting
The next meeting of the Repositories WG will be held at 8AM PST on Monday May 6, 2024. We will pick up the discussion where we left off. If you would like a particular topic placed on the agenda, please email Joseph at director@r-consortium.org.

